Hi there. In this video we are going
to look at two commands you will use
fairly frequently. One is the cp command for
copy and one is the mv command for
move or also for renaming files. So the
easiest thing to do is to copy some
files just to say cp and then the
source file to the destination file and that
will move the file with the same name
from the source to the destination. So for
instance, I happen to have a few folders
here and assign zero, let's do this. Let's
do this, let's say cp assign zero slash
I think there's a hello. C file there
and let me move it to assign five.
Right, so what I've done is I've said
here's the source assign zero hello c and
I wanna move it to the assign five
directory like that. Right, and it just did
it without prompting because in the assign five
directory there was no was no c p
or there was no hello dot c file
already. If I try that again though, watch
what happens. It says c p overwrite this
and you say a yes or no. So
let's say oh I don't want to overwrite
that. That's a nice little check that we
have set up on the, myth system for
you. Just keep in mind that many Unix
systems don't have that check built in automatically.
So you go to a different Unix system
and you try to copy files and you
think oh well if it already exists I'll
get a I'll get a nice little alert,
that's not necessarily going to be the case.
So you have to be a little bit
little bit careful with with that. I could
also I could do say oh well I
don't want to call it hello c, I
want to call it hello2.c and, that just
says look, just rename it to make the
copy and call it hello2.c. So, that's how
you do, copies like that. And you can
also copy entire folders so let's say I
have cp r which will recursively copy an
entire folder so let's say assign zero to
assign twenty two I just wanna copy the
entire assign zero to some folder called assign
twenty two, which doesn't exist yet, let's say.
And it will copy the whole thing. So
if I do assign 22, all my files
will be in there. So you can recursively
copy and, so forth. Now if I, tried
it again, which does exist, believe it or
not it doesn't actually, give us a prompt
in this case. If I did all the
files in there, let's say I do a
sign zero slash star, star being the wild
card, if I do a sign zero slash
star to assign 22 it will probably ask
me yes, it will ask me. I'm not
sure why the recursive one doesn't automatically do
that. Now here's something that's a bit painful.
To actually make the copy of the entire
thing if it already exists, you will have
to answer yes for all those little prompts.
And there's a couple ways around this. Because
the cp command is aliased, in fact if
you just type alias, it will tell you
what the CP command is. CP command is
actually alias to CP dash I and if
you do man CP and search for dash
I we will see it's the interactive so
it's prompting for the overwrite which is kind
of nice. Right. But what you can do
is you can actually say okay fine I
just want to do backslash cp and then
-r -r assign zero to assign 22 and
it will actually run the original cp command
for you and you don't have to do
that. So that's how the cp command actually
works so it's pretty straightforward. Again, it will,
have the same filename unless you actually put
a filename itself in the destination folder that
you're trying to copy it to. Now, another,
command, the m v command is used to
move one file from one place to another.
So let's do assign zero again and see
what's in there. Let's say we wanna move
the readme. Txt file to assign 22. Move,
oh, it's actually let's actually just do this.
Move assign zero readme. Txt to the current
directory. Alright, so what we did was we
moved the readme file there and if we
look at assign zero again, readme is gone.
So it actually did copy it and then
removed it from the original folder. So that's
nice. If I want to move it back
I can just type move readme. Txt to
assign zero and it will move it right
back. Now what if you try to move
assign zero slash readme to assign 22 like
that it will ask you if you want
to overwrite it. So same thing as before.
Now this is an easy way to rename
something move assign zero readme oops moved it
already. Let's move it back move assign twenty
two read me to assign zero and let's
move assign zero read me dot txt to
just call it something else, assign zero slash
just maybe we wanna make it uppercase, readme
dot txt something like that, it will actually
rename it. So that actually does the move,
makes copy and then removes the original which
is the same thing as renaming it. So
that's how you, use the move command. You
do not have to worry about the dash
r if you want to move an entire
folder. So let's move assign 22 to assign
23. You just type move assign 22 to
assign 23. They're both folders so it will
just move the entire thing. All it's really
doing is renaming the upper directory, the first
directory to the second directory name so it
doesn't actually have to do any copying of
files. So that's, that is the move command.
Now as I said, you have to be
a little bit careful with other Unix systems
that don't necessarily have the alias for, the
check for overwriting. So, just make sure that
when you're on other Unix systems, you be
careful when you are doing the MV command.
Thanks.